# Accessibility UX elaborated

## Intro

Hi my name is James curd. I'm presentation layer engineer at the Austin office. I've worked here for about two years on the city account. I want to for clients biggest focuses his then accessibility. Part of the reason they just revamped their entire website was fear that they can get sued if their web sight was not accessible two people with various disabilities. There is an increasing sense of fear that the government will adopt the WCAG (that is, the Web content accessibility guidelines) as it's official standard for compliance with the Americans with disabilities act that passed in 1990. The ADA prevents discrimination based on disability, and in recent years many companies that have functionality deemed to be universal enough to be a public service such as banks and airlines have found themselves under pressure to offer their services and their websites to everyone.

My primary focus of razorfish has been web accessibility, but bear in mind that this applies to everything. The ADA is why we have handicapped parking spots, wheelchair ramps, Braille in elevators, walk signs the beep and talk to you. We've seen our public spaces adjust their layout and their design in order to be more universally accessed. The web is no different.

Now frankly, your client may not be a bank or an airline. Your client may not come to you with this as a concern. And when it's not part of the clients agenda, the concessions can be hard to sell.

### Mission Statement

Creating a truly accessible website requires a lot of knowledge. Not just from your developers, or your testers, the right in the beginning—from the functional requirements and then the information architecture and in the design.

And even without buy-in from a client, there are certainly several steps we can take in the right direction, and they begin with awareness.

## Our Users

Let's talk about who our users are.

We're already used to thinking about different users.

People from different backgrounds, with different skill sets, with different understandings of technology are all going to interface with their products and a slightly different manner. Skeumorphism was so popular for so long because it was believed that people needed an interface analogous to real world objects they were already accustomed to.

We already design for simple users in mind. We design for power users. We design for people who have too much time on their hands, and we designe for people who have no patience.

The first thing that most people have when they hear accessibility is that we are going to design for the blind. This was the mistake I made when I first started. It seemed to me like our website could have a representation for the sighted and the non-sighted. Well we were always opposed to coding two separate websites for this, several of our techniques still adopted that mentality. That "oh—this bit of content it is only for people who are blind," and sometimes the experience even differed.

It turns out that this is wrong because not all of our users are fully blind. There is no clear distinction between our sighted users and our non-sighted users. Most of the people that I've met the use screen readers are partially blind. They see certain colors with greater Visual clarity than others. They have specks in their vision. They can see but they have to put their face 6 inches away from screen. They can see but they have to keep their head 5 feet away from the screen. They can see but they're going to be accessing the site with a tool that zooms in they're looking at 16 times.
It's not just vision, though.

We design for iPhones, computers, tablets, video game consoles, posters.

We also need to design for for users who are accessing the computer only through a keyboard, relying solely on browser-based navigation like the tab key and up and down arrows.

We also need to design for people accessing the site through a screen reader, whose experience Will be determined by the semantic quality of the code, the hierarchy of our information, and how well we can present it linearly.

We also need to care for deaf users. We need to provide closed captioning for audio content.

And we need to care for users with cognitive disabilities. We need to make sure the that language that we uses understandable—the lower the grade-point level of writing, the better.

